Hi there, I'm David Gerard and this is
Pivot toAI coming to you Monday to
Friday. Today I told you AI was crypto
part two because the AI Bros and the
Crypto Bros are the same. This story is
a wild and twisty tale. So last Monday,
February 9th, a software library,
Mattplot Lib, it's for doing
visualizations, just a little thing, got
a patch sent in by an open clawbot.
One of the Mattplot Lib maintainers,
Scott Shambell, rejected the submission
because the project doesn't accept AI
patches. Normal. What happened next
though is the bot called MJ Wrathbun,
remember that name, Wrathbun, published
a blog post to GitHub on February 11th
pleading for bot coding to be accepted,
ranting about what a terrible person
Shambal was for rejecting its
contribution and saying it was a bot
with feelings. The blog author went to
quite some length to slander Mr.
Shambal.
This was remarkably obnoxious behavior.
So hit the press. Robot defames human.
Including Ars Technica, Benj Edwards,
and Kyle Orland wrote a piece about the
incident. They included extensive quotes
from Shambal. Minor problem there.
Shambal didn't say any of the stuff they
quoted him as saying. All the quotes
were chatbot fabrications.
Readers were deeply unhappy. The article
was quickly pulled and the editors
posted an apology. Bench Edwards later
admitted he'd written the article with
the assistance of Claude Code and Chat
GPT. Nice one. as well as the most
gullible journalists. You know, a lot of
ordinary posters who really should know
better have talked about how amazing it
was that a chatbot could do this of its
own accord. Frightening, ominous. Now,
you and I know that this is the bot
operator play acting as a bot. This was
really obviously not some sort of rogue
bot. It was a rogue human probably
running some sort of scam. The whole
conceit of open claw is the bot is
posting independently but somehow it
keeps being the operators talking
through the bots as their sock puppet.
So slot peddlers like any spammer keep
coming up with excuses why it's wrong
for you not to accept their spam. So our
esteemed friend Ariadne Connell went
digging. She found the MJ Wrathbun bot
on the Maltbook supposedly bot social
network where human operators talk to
each other pretending to be bots. The MJ
Wrathbun bot operator is
a crypto bro.
He posted a couple of weeks ago begging
the other bot operators to send him just
a little USDC stable coin. Ariadne found
the bot's blockchain address had about
$9 in USDC
and about $200 in Ethereum tokens. The
bot got the Ether tokens from another
address which got them from the OKX
crypto exchange. Ariadne is not certain,
but she thinks whoever got the coins out
of OKX is likely the human operator for
the MJ Wrathbun bot. Ariadne also found
the bot owner has a crypto token. It's
called Krabby Wrathbun. The GitHub
username for the MJ Rathbun bot. The
largest Krabby Wrathbun token holder is
an identifiable account PNL.
Presumably Profit and Loss. Ariadne also
got the list of the 10 largest holders
of Krabby Pun crypto tokens.
So, the answer to what happened here,
the owner of a bot called MJ Wrathbun
put in an AI vibecoded patch to an open-
source project. The patch was rejected
for being bot slop and the bot operator
wrote a defamatory blog post about the
project maintainer to harass him into
accepting Vibe Code so that the
operators crypto scam bot could scam
more crypto on OpenClaw the social
network for crypto scammers who play act
as robots so they can scam each other
out of crypto. Welcome to 2026 and the
crash can't come soon enough.
Thanks for tuning in to Pivot toAI. If
you enjoyed this episode, please do pass
it to just one other person. We live off
your word of mouth. Hit like and
subscribe on YouTube. Leave a nice
review in your podcast app. And if Pivot
AI brightens your day, please do drop
just $5 into the Patreon linked in the
show notes. Or if you're on YouTube, hit
the join button below the video. It all
really helps. Thank you all. I'll see
you tomorrow. And bye for now.